# Twine 1.4.3

Release Notes: January 1, 2022

## Bugfixes/alterations

### Development program

#### Story Map

- Signficantly improved the performance of the story map, with minor
    improvements to numerous other features. Thanks to Richard Lake and
    Maarten ter Huurne for this.
- Potentially fixed a crash involving dragging passages.
- Fixed a bug where pasting passages would sometimes place them in
    incorrect positions.

#### Menus

- Added an "Update StoryIncludes Links" menu option, allowing
    StoryIncludes passage availability to be manually refreshed. This
    menu item will be disabled if StoryIncludes isn't present.
- Added Option-Command-F as an alternative 'exit fullscreen' key
    command.

#### StoryIncludes

- Now, closing StorySettings will refresh the StoryIncludes links
    automatically.
- Now, you can include a .tws which itself contains a StoryIncludes
    passage.

#### Passage editor

- Pressing control-A while typing in the passage title box should now
    correctly select the title text.
- If you highlight a link with separate link text and passage title
    (such as \[\[link text|passage\]\]) then press control-L, a new
    passage named "passage" (instead of "link text|passage") is created.
- In the "create passages" prompt given when you close a passage
    containing red links, the 'cancel' button now correctly cancels
    closing the passage.

#### Importing

- Fixed a bug where you couldn't import Twine HTML files which had
    tags written in uppercase.
- Fixed a bug where Twine HTML files with storeArea \<div\>s with the
    attribute "hidden" couldn't be imported.
- Changed the MIME-type of imported TTF font files from
    "application/x-font-ttf" to "application/font-sfnt", and added
    "format(truetype)" to the generated @font-face CSS, and made similar
    changes for OTF fonts.

#### Story formats

- Now, Twine will continue instead of crashing if, during startup, the
    last opened story's format isn't available. Also, it will properly
    error and quit if zero story formats are available (which should be
    unlikely).
- Changed the naming of custom story formats' Python files from
    \[story format name\]/\[story format name\].py to \[story format
    name\]/header.py, in order to fix the issue where if a user renames
    the story format's directory, the custom Header file will no longer
    be found. However, old story formats which still use \[story format
    name\].py should continue to work correctly.

## Game engine

### General

- Fixed a missing Y in the "got itself in a mess" error message.
- The storeArea's passage is now read using textContent instead of
    innerText, fixing a number of minor bugs involving consecutive
    whitespace in passages being truncated.

#### Syntax

- Fixed a bug where the image syntax didn't work with images at
    external URLs.

#### Macros/Functions

- Fixed a bug where variables saved via «remember» were unwittingly
    shared over all Twine stories accessed from the same website.
- Fixed a bug in Jonah where certain internal link
