# Twine 1.4.0

Release Date: December 10, 2013

## Game engine

### Syntax

- You can now mix HTML tags and passage syntax in your story, without
    needing the `<html>` syntax. (It still remains for
    backwards-compatibility).
- You can now use variables in place of a passage name in the link
    syntax - `[[Exit|$placeName]]` now creates a link to the passage
    whose name is in the $placeName variable. You can also do
    `[[Back|previous()]]` to replicate the `<<back>>` macro.
- Also, you can write `[[link text|passage name][$var = value]]` to
    make a passage or external link that changes a variable when it's
    followed\! The code section is treated as if it were arguments to a
    `<<set>>` macro. This syntax addition should work with `<<choice>>`
    macros (but not the `[img]` syntax). You can set multiple variables
    by separating them with a semicolon.
- As a shorthand for `<span style="...">`, the TiddlyWiki inline style
    syntax is available. Type `@@`, then list CSS style attributes
    separated and terminated with semicolons, then put the passage text
    (including any other formatting and macros) ending with another
    `@@`. Example: `@@font-size:2em; text-decoration: underline; Hello
    there!@@`
- Ending a line with `\` will cause that line break to be removed from
    the rendered text. This can be useful when dealing with long chains
    of `<<if>>` macros.

### Macros

- `<<remember>>` now uses HTML5 Local Storage, which means it can now
    work even in an offline HTML file. Also, it can remember multiple
    variables given in a compound statement (like `<<remember $a = 1, $b
    = 2>>`).
- Added `<<forget>>`, which undoes the effects of `<<remember>>`.
- `<<choice>>` can now accept arguments phrased using the link syntax,
    e.g: `<<choice [[a trapdoor?|falling]]>>`. This saves the trouble of
    having to account for its inconsistent argument order.
- `<<nobr>>` and `<<endnobr>>` remove all the line breaks in the text
    between them. They should be used instead of `<<silently>>` to
    enclose groups of macros.
- The `<<else if>>` macro, which can also be written as `<<elseif>>`,
    allows you to essentially have multiple `<<if>>` macros chained
    together, without needing to nest each of them within the `<<else>>`
    / `<<endif>>` tag pair of the other.
- You can also use variables in place of a passage name in
    `<<display>>`. For instance, `<<display $name>>` is now valid.

### Shorthand macros

- You can now write a shorthand form of `<<print $variable>>` like so:
    `<<$variable>>.` Note that this only works for printing just
    variables - not functions or anything else.
- You can now write a shorthand form of `<<display "Place">>` like so:
    `<<Place>>`. Note that this only works for passages whose names do
    NOT contain spaces. Also, it can only be done with specific named
    passages - not variables or anything else.
- You can supply additional arguments to the shorthand `<<display>>`
    macro - in effect, you can "call" passages as if they were macros.
    (Note: you cannot supply arguments to the longhand `<<display>>`
    because they will be interpreted as part of the passage name - for
    instance, `<<display Cellar 2>>` will try to display "Cellar 2"
    instead of "Cellar" with an argument of 2.)

### Macro syntax/functions

- You may now use "to" in macros instead of "=", and "is" instead of
    "eq". I think we can all agree it's too easy to confuse "=" with
    "eq", so you can instead write `<<set $darts to 4>>` for more
    readable code.
- Strings containing 'and', 'or', '$' and other Twine operator symbols
    can be used inside macros without them changing into Javascript
    symbols.
- Now you can put greater-than signs inside macro tags, such as `<<set
    $arrow to "-->">>`
- All new variables are now 0 by default, regardless of whether you've
    `<<set>>` them or not.
- Added `either()`, a function that randomly picks one of the things
    given to it.
- Added `visited()`, a function that returns the number of times
    you've visited the given passage.
- Added `previous()`, a function that returns the name of the previous
    passage visited.
- If this passage is being included by a shorthand `<<display>>`, the
    `parameter()` function returns one of the space-separated terms in
    the macro invocation, parsed to a value. The function's argument is
    a zero-based index - `parameter()` or `parameter(0)` returns the
    first parameter, `parameter(1)` the second, and so forth.

### Macro coding

- `setTransitionCSS()` replaces the contents of the \#transitionCSS
    \<script\> element with the passed string. This allows you to
    completely override the default transition CSS without it cascading
    down. I'm offering this as a JS function because many transitions
    will also require some extra JS, and being able to provide the
    complete transition code in just a script is desirable.
- `prerender` and `postrender` are new objects whose function
    properties are executed every time the passage is rendered. The
    functions added to them take one argument: the resultant `.passage
    .content` element. Their 'this' value is the Passage object being
    rendered.

### Passage tags

- An alternative Tag CSS approach\! Now, taking a stylesheet passage
    and adding an extra tag to it (in addition to "stylesheet") will
    cause that stylesheet to only be applied for passages with that
    given tag. (This, I feel, is a bit tidier than the old Tag CSS
    method - the `[data-tags]` selector need not be repeated dozens of
    times in a stylesheet, and applying only to the 'body' or '.passage'
    selectors. Although, it is slightly less flexible w/r/t tag
    hierarchies - the `:not[data-tags]` selector can't really be
    replicated.)
- Twine now uses CSS transitions for passages appearing and
    disappearing. Giving a stylesheet passage the tag "transition" will
    cause that stylesheet to replace the default "fade-in" transition
    CSS, letting you define your own transition without having to
    override the other one's properties.
- The special "nobr" passage tag removes line breaks from the whole
    passage.

### StorySettings

The StorySettings passage enables a number of special story options to
be set.

- Undo: enables the player to "undo moves". In Sugarcane, this means
    being able to use the Back button in the browser. In Jonah, this
    means being able to use the "Rewind to here" link, and being able to
    click links in previous passages.
- Bookmark: enables the player to use the "Bookmark" link in Sugarcane
    and Jonah. On by default.
- Obfuscate: obfuscates the story's HTML source to prevent people from
    spoiling themselves by reading it. Off by default.
- jQuery: set this on if you are using custom scripts that rely on the
    jQuery library. Otherwise, leave off. Note: Twine 1.4 relinquishes
    control of the "$" variable, so jQuery can now use it without
    $.noConflict().
- Modernizr: set this on if you are using custom scripts that rely on
    the Modernizr library. Otherwise, leave off.

### Jonah

- All passages are now added to the bottom, regardless of where you
    click the link.
- Clicking a link that leads to a previously displayed passage will
    display a new version of the passage at the bottom, instead of
    scrolling up to the old version.
- Clicking a link in a past passage in Jonah now rewinds the game
    state to that passage before following the link. This gives the
    author a greater level of control over the game state - it's no
    longer possible to re-use old links from earlier in the story that
    no longer make sense in the current context. (Note: Switching off
    the "Undo" StorySetting disables all links in past passages.)
- `<<back>>` is now usable in Jonah. When used in Jonah, a `<<back>>`
    link removes the contained passage, plus any prior passages (as
    given by the "steps" argument or a passage name argument).

### Sugarcane

- Removed the "Share" menu.
- The "Rewind" menu is only visible if any passage has been tagged
    with 'bookmark'.
- Added a "Bookmark" menu item, which produces a link to the current
    passage.
- HTML5 History is now used to control the browser's Back and Forward
    buttons, and the `<<back>>` and `<<return>>` macros, in Sugarcane.
    This means that several bugs related to these are now fixed, and
    they should now work alongside random macros, player-input macros,
    and other such things.
- `<<choice>>` is now usable in Sugarcane. It now creates a link that
    can only be clicked once in the whole story.
- The sidebar now has position:absolute instead of position:fixed.

### CSS / HTML

- Added a `<noscript>` tag to alert the reader that Javascript is off.
- Made it so that raw HTML `<a>` links in stories are styled as if
    they were proper externalLinks, in case the author unwittingly used
    the former in ignorance of the latter (a not uncommon occurence).
- The passage content element, formerly classed "body" in Jonah and
    "content" in Sugarcane, now has a class of "body content" to match
    legacy CSS for both.

## Development program

### Visual

- Special passages (Start, StoryAuthor, stylesheets, etc.) have
    different-coloured title bars. I've tried to stick with earthy hues
    in keeping with the colour scheme of the Twine icon, with redder
    hues used for stylesheet and script passages.
- Passage tags are displayed in a peach ribbon along the bottom of the
    passage box.
- Annotation passages are non-playable passages tagged with
    "annotation" that hold text to display on the story map, to
    annotate, comment or document the source code of the game. They have
    a different colour and size to normal passages.
- Connection lines representing `<<display>>` macros are drawn with a
    bluer tint.
- The position of newly created passages is much less arbitrary -
    passages will be placed closer to the expected area.
- Altered the Greeking of zoomed-out passages to reflect the actual
    passage text length.
- Selected passages now have their link arrows thickened to visually
    offset them.
- Passage tooltips now display a preview of the passage's text (up to
    840 characters).
- Tagged stylesheets have arrows linking them and any passages with
    the same tag.

### Importing/Exporting

- Added "Import From Compiled HTML" option, letting the author recover
    passages from built games.
- Importing .twee source code no longer discards all the passage tags
    in the imported passages.
- The "Proofing Copy" export option renders a few more markup styles
    better.

### Building

- The "Test Play" menu item builds the game to a temp file, letting
    you run the story without having to have saved it to a specific
    filename first.
- You can also right-click a passage and select "Test Play From Here"
    to start playing from that particular passage.
- The "StoryIncludes" passage allows the passages inside other .tws or
    .twee files to be imported into this passage during building. If
    your game is particularly huge, you can divide it into a bunch of
    smaller .tws/.twee files, then add the filenames of these partial
    .tws/.twee files to one "main" file's StoryIncludes passage. All the
    passages in those files will then be copied into the main story at
    build time.
- Added "Auto Build", a menu option that is only available when used
    with a StoryIncludes passage. If this is set, then when any one of
    those smaller .tws/.twee files is modified, the story is
    automatically rebuilt and can be tested in-browser. This requires
    both files to be open at the same time, though.

### Passage editing

- Passage titles must now be unique. The passage title input will turn
    red to indicate non-uniqueness.
- Passage titles may no longer contain the | and \] symbols, due to
    such names being difficult to link.
- Vastly improved the passage syntax highlighter.
- Added very basic stylesheet CSS syntax highlighting.

### Images and fonts

- You can now add image files to the story file. These are stored as
    'image passages' which can be included in passages using the image
    syntax: `[img[imageName]]` displays the image. Images are also
    embedded in the final HTML file, and don't need to be hosted
    elsewhere. Supported image file extensions are GIF, PNG, JPEG, SVG
    and WebP.
- You can now embed font files, which can then be used in stylesheets,
    or, if you don't know CSS, the \<font\> element. Fonts are simply
    imported as stylesheet passages containing the font file in base64
    encoding. Supported font file extensions are TTF, WOFF, OTF and SVG.
