# Twine 2.0.5

Release Date: May 26, 2015

## Editor

This is the first release in the 2.x series to offer native apps for desktop OSes.

There is a known bug with the version of SugarCube bundled with this release. As a workaround, use the Formats option on the right side of the story list and choose Add a New Format at the top.

Enter this address:

`http://www.motoslave.net/sugarcube/1/twine2/format.js`

This format should be called just "SugarCube", and is identical functionally to what is normally bundled.

### Bugfixes

- Fixed a bug where dragging a group of passages caused them to jump to odd locations after the drag.
- Fixed a bug where passages would jump around after moving from the editor to the story list.
- The first passage added to a story is always set as its starting point.
- Better handling is done to recover gracefully when a story format fails to load.
- In native app builds, the filenames for stories are stripped of any characters that might cause problems (i.e. slashes or colons).
- New passages are now properly centered, regardless of zoom level.
- A story with no starting point set now archives properly.

### Features

- New visual previews of stories in the list.
- You can now rename, test, and duplicate a story from the list instead of having to edit it first.
- When a passage is renamed, the editor makes its best effort to change links accordingly. This doesn't yet work if the passage is mentioned in a macro.
- Added rudimentary autocomplete when typing links in the passage editor. This only works right now for links, not macro mentions; this may change in the future.
- Deleting a passage now prompts the user that they're sure; holding the Shift key while clicking the delete icon bypasses this warning.
- The grid snap has been made coarser.
- Pressing Control-Shift-Alt-(or Option)-D in a native app build will open a debugger console.
