# Twine 2.1.0

Release Date: January 31, 2017

## Upgrade Notes

This is a significant update from the 2.0 series. If you're upgrading, please read the notes below before beginning.

If you are upgrading, then making a backup copy of your stories folder is recommended. To do this, launch Twine 2.0 and choose **Show Library** from the Twine menu. Quit Twine, then make a copy of the folder that was revealed. (If you are using Linux and **Show Library** doesn't work, your stories folder is located in `~/Documents/Twine`.

**If you had added custom story formats previously,** you'll need to re-add them after updating to this version. The process works exactly the same as before. Sorry for the inconvenience -- you will only need to do this once.

**If you do not see any stories after upgrading,** double-check your Twine directory by choosing **Show Library** from the Twine menu. Go up one level from here. You may see two directories: one called "Stories," and another named Stories in another language (hopefully your preferred, non-English one). Move the story files from Stories to the folder with the localized name and they should be back once you re-launch Twine.

**If you would like to continue using 2.0.11 online,** it is still available at <https://twinery.org/2.0.11>.

## Features added

- Streamlined look and feel.
- The starting passage now shows a green rocket icon in the passage instead of being slightly bolder.
- Passages with broken links now show an arrow ending in an X instead of an icon in the passage.
- Added dark theme for late-night hypertexting.
- Loading large stories is considerably faster.
- It's now possible to have multiple versions of story formats installed.
- Harlowe 2.0.0 is now available.
- SugarCube 2.1.12 is now available.
- You can now use the Chromium web debugger on stories you test inside Twine by right-clicking the window and choosing **Inspect** from the contextual menu.
- You can now directly drag a story file onto the story list to import it.
- The story format version is now recorded in a published story file.
- You can now drag the story map by holding down the middle button of the mouse instead of the space bar.
- You can zoom into the story map with the mouse wheel.
- When dragging passages when snap-to-grid is turned on, the passages will reflect this.
- If you import a story with the same name as an existing one, then Twine will prompt you if you'd like to replace it.
- Danish, Italian, and Portuguese localizations have been added.

### Bugfixes

- Passages that link to themselves display a clearer arrow in the story map.
- The gauge showing the remaining local storage space in the online version now works correctly.
- It's no longer possible for passages to get pushed offscreen.
- Renaming a story in the desktop app no longer creates duplicate files.
- A typo in the German localization has been corrected.
