# Twine 2.1.2

Release Date: April 29, 2017

If you are upgrading and using a non-English localization, this will cause your stories to be saved to a slightly different folder than before. Instead of Twine -\> Stories, they will now be saved to Twine -\> \[the word "Stories" as translated to your language\]. You will probably need to move your existing stories into this new folder.

## Features

- Increased the display density of passages at the medium zoom level.
- The story list can now be sorted in reverse chronological and alphabetical order (thanks Thomas Michael Edwards).
- Mac users can now create passages in the story editor with force touch (thanks Michael Savich).
- You can now widen the passage, JavaScript, and stylesheet editor windows.
- Revised syntax colors in the JavaScript and stylesheet editors to be more readable.
- Includes SugarCube 2.16.0.
- Includes Harlowe 1.2.4 and 2.0.1.

## Bugfixes

- When a new story format is added, stories that used an older version are automatically brought up-to-date. This bug would manifest as having no format initially selected in the Story Format dialog.
- You cannot remove the default story format anymore. (Choose another one as default first.)
- Issues with non-English localizations where stories would not save correctly, or would not save to the correct folder, have been fixed.
- External links now do not cause a broken-link arrow to be drawn in the story editor.
- Special characters (that have meaning in regular expressions) now are handled correctly when searching and replacing.
- Fixed a bug where publishing a story from the story list wouldn't work.
- Fixed a bug where clicking the modal dialog background would not save passage title changes.
- Fixed a bug where clicking the modal dialog background would be treated as a confirmation in deletion modal dialogs.
- It's now not possible to scroll the main window when a modal dialog is open.
