# Twine 2.0.11

Release Date: February 27, 2016

## Features added

- Includes new localizations for German and Finnish.
- Updates the included version of Harlowe to 1.2.2.
- Updates the included version of Snowman to 1.3.0.
- Updates the included version of SugarCube to 1.3.4.

## Bugfixes

- Resolves several problems in 2.0.10 with Linux.
- Improves link drawing of certain setter links.

---

# Twine 2.0.10

Release Date: November 20, 2015

## Editor

Twine 2.0.10 has the same changelog as 2.0.9, but it includes Harlowe 1.2.1,
which fixes a problem with `(else:)` invocations.

---

# Twine 2.0.9

Release Date: November 17, 2015

## Editor

### Features

- Includes new localizations for Brazilian Portuguese, Danish, Dutch, French,
  and Russian.
- Updates to CodeMirror 5.4.

### Bugfixes

- A bug where dragging multiple passages would cause them to jump around after
  the drag completed has been fixed.
- A visual glitch where passage, JavaScript, and stylesheet editors appeared to
  have two scrollbars has been fixed.
- The quick search highlight now updates properly after editing a passage.
- Global variables set by the editor are now cleaned up, so that they won't
  interfere with story previews.
- The passage editor now uses tabs consistently to indent, as opposed to a mix
  of spaces and tabs.
- A bug where gray areas would be visible after changing the zoom level of a
  story map has been fixed.
- When you change the start passage for a story, link connectors will correctly
  update based on its new width.
- The OS X desktop app is now usable for all users, not just the one who installs it.
- The Windows desktop app is better at finding the user's Documents folder.
- Desktop apps should no longer complain about running out of space.
- Handles importing story files that have no IFID gracefully.

## Story Formats

- Updates the included version of Harlowe to 1.2.
- Updates the included version of Snowman to 1.2.
- Updates the included version of SugarCube to 1.0.32.

---

# Twine 2.0.8

Release Date: July 6, 2015

## Features added

- Fixes bug where `<` and `>` characters would be garbled in stories in the
  native app version has been fixed.
- Updates Harlowe to version 1.1.1.

---

# Twine 2.0.7

Release Date: July 4, 2015

## Editor

### Features

- Twine is now internationalized, and includes a Spanish localization.
- Importing files has been sped up, as well as the startup time of the local
  app.

### Bugfixes

- Fixes a bug where clicking links in a story generated from the Test and Play
  buttons would not work.
- The local application now works properly on Windows 7 Enterprise.

## Story Formats

- Updates the included version of Harlowe to 1.1.
- Updates the included version of Snowman to 1.1.

---

# Twine 2.0.6

Release Date: May 31, 2015

## Editor

### Bugfixes

- Properly includes SugarCube in local app versions.
- Fixes a bug in 2.0.5 where clicking links in testing/play versions of stories
  did not work.

### Known Bugs

- When testing or playing a SugarCube story in an app version, sidebar links do
  not work.

## Story Formats

- Updates the remote URL of SugarCube to the latest.
- Updates the included version of SugarCube in local app versions to 1.0.23.
- Updates the included version of Snowman to 1.0.2.

---

# Twine 2.0.5

Release Date: May 26, 2015

## Editor

This is the first release in the 2.x series to offer native apps for desktop
OSes.

There is a known bug with the version of SugarCube bundled with this release. As
a workaround, use the Formats option on the right side of the story list and
choose Add a New Format at the top.

Enter this address:

`http://www.motoslave.net/sugarcube/1/twine2/format.js`

This format should be called just "SugarCube", and is identical functionally to
what is normally bundled.

### Bugfixes

- Fixed a bug where dragging a group of passages caused them to jump to odd
  locations after the drag.
- Fixed a bug where passages would jump around after moving from the editor to
  the story list.
- The first passage added to a story is always set as its starting point.
- Better handling is done to recover gracefully when a story format fails to
  load.
- In native app builds, the filenames for stories are stripped of any characters
  that might cause problems (i.e. slashes or colons).
- New passages are now properly centered, regardless of zoom level.
- A story with no starting point set now archives properly.

### Features

- New visual previews of stories in the list.
- You can now rename, test, and duplicate a story from the list instead of
  having to edit it first.
- When a passage is renamed, the editor makes its best effort to change links
  accordingly. This doesn't yet work if the passage is mentioned in a macro.
- Added rudimentary autocomplete when typing links in the passage editor. This
  only works right now for links, not macro mentions; this may change in the
  future.
- Deleting a passage now prompts the user that they're sure; holding the Shift
  key while clicking the delete icon bypasses this warning.
- The grid snap has been made coarser.
- Pressing Control-Shift-Alt-(or Option)-D in a native app build will open a
  debugger console.

---

# Twine 2.0.4

Release Date: April 12, 2015

## Editor

### Bugfixes

- The app no longer mistakenly reports an updated version is available
  immediately after updating.
- If an error occurs within the library used to save stories, a notification is
  now shown to the user. Previously, notifications were only shown when an error
  happened within the Twine app itself.

## Features

- The tooltip for the story menu now shows the most recent date/time the story
  was saved.
- The Story Statistics dialog is back, and now includes the
  [IFID](http://ifdb.tads.org/help-ifid) for a story.
- Added experimental native app builds saving stories to the Documents folder,
  under Twine Stories.

## Built-In Story Formats

- Updated Snowman to version 1.0.1.

---

# Twine 2.0.3

Release Date: February 13, 2015

## Editor

### Bugfixes

- Trying to save a passage with a name that another one already has now shows an
  error message instead of losing work.
- Newly-created passages now are numbered properly ("Untitled Passage 1",
  "Untitled Passage 2", etc.) This bug would also cause data loss.
- Fix a bug with displaying search results when searching for text including `\<` and `\>`.
- Using Enter to add tags works as many times as you like while editing a passage.
- Publishing stories now works on Safari.
- Fix problems with the story stylesheet and story JavaScript editor putting
  typed text far away from where the cursor appeared.
- At medium zoom level, passage titles now use the entire space of the box
  instead of a single line.
- Fix intermittent problems where link arrows or broken-link status of a passage
  would not update after editing.

## Features

- If you try to play a story but haven't set a starting point yet, you are now
  prompted to do so.
- Window titles have been changed slightly to better distinguish editing a story
  from playing or testing it.
- A warning appears if you try to navigate away from editing a passage (i.e.
  while changes may not have been saved yet).
- New animations between the story list and editor.

## Built-In Story Formats

No changes.

---

# Twine 2.0.2

Release Notes: January 14, 2015

## Editor

### Bugfixes

- The storage quota bar on the story list no longer causes slowdown on Chrome.
- A progress spinner is shown while importing from a file.
- After an import, the story list automatically updates.
- Passages are prevented from being moved offscreen.
- If a story is published to an already-existing window or tab, then a
  notification appears letting the user know that they should look over there
  for the updated output.
- Story formats now timeout on loading at 10 seconds instead of 2.
- User-added story formats may now be deleted.
- \[\[\]\] is no longer considered a link (previously, a passage with an empty
  name would be created).
- Date sorting in the story list now works properly.
- If publishing a story fails, then an error notification is shown to the user
  (previously, this would die silently).
- Clicking a button automatically hides any tooltips for it, to prevent it from
  blocking any popups from view.
- Passage connectors now take border width into account (i.e. links drawn from
  the start passage show properly).

## Features

- Passage connector drawing during a drag has been sped up.
- SugarCube has been added as a built-in format.
- The browser's window title changes to match what the user is currently working on.

## Built-In Story Formats

No changes.

---

# Twine 2.0.1

Release date: December 31, 2014

## Editor

## Bugfixes

- Story formats are now preserved during import (thanks Thomas Michael Edwards).
- `$$` and other esoteric-ish characters in passages are no longer
  inappropriately transformed during the publishing process (thanks Thomas
  Michael Edwards).
- A bug where passage connections would sometimes not update with zoom level
  changes has been fixed.
- A cosmetic issue with popup balloons is fixed.
- The link to the Twine forum on the welcome page is fixed.

## Features

- The editor now checks for an updated version against
  `http://twinery.org/latestversion/2.json` once a day and informs users
  accordingly.
- Passage connections are now drawn using SVG for improved performance.

## Built-In Story Formats

### Harlowe

- TBD

### Snowman

- Now properly uses user-created stylesheets and JavaScript.
