# Twine 2.1.3

Release Date: May 1, 2017

## Bugfixes

- An issue causing passages to disappear, be positioned incorrectly, or
  otherwise become corrupted has been fixed.
- Problems causing the search and replace dialog to not work correctly have been
  fixed.

---

# Twine 2.1.2

Release Date: April 29, 2017

If you are upgrading and using a non-English localization, this will cause your
stories to be saved to a slightly different folder than before. Instead of Twine
-\> Stories, they will now be saved to Twine -\> \[the word "Stories" as
translated to your language\]. You will probably need to move your existing
stories into this new folder.

## Features

- Increased the display density of passages at the medium zoom level.
- The story list can now be sorted in reverse chronological and alphabetical
  order (thanks Thomas Michael Edwards).
- Mac users can now create passages in the story editor with force touch (thanks
  Michael Savich).
- You can now widen the passage, JavaScript, and stylesheet editor windows.
- Revised syntax colors in the JavaScript and stylesheet editors to be more
  readable.
- Includes SugarCube 2.16.0.
- Includes Harlowe 1.2.4 and 2.0.1.

## Bugfixes

- When a new story format is added, stories that used an older version are
  automatically brought up-to-date. This bug would manifest as having no format
  initially selected in the Story Format dialog.
- You cannot remove the default story format anymore. (Choose another one as
  default first.)
- Issues with non-English localizations where stories would not save correctly,
  or would not save to the correct folder, have been fixed.
- External links now do not cause a broken-link arrow to be drawn in the story
  editor.
- Special characters (that have meaning in regular expressions) now are handled
  correctly when searching and replacing.
- Fixed a bug where publishing a story from the story list wouldn't work.
- Fixed a bug where clicking the modal dialog background would not save passage title changes.
- Fixed a bug where clicking the modal dialog background would be treated as a
  confirmation in deletion modal dialogs.
- It's now not possible to scroll the main window when a modal dialog is open.

---

# Twine 2.1.1

Release Date: March 1, 2017

## Features added

- Added Czech, German, Italian, and Portuguese localizations.
- Updated SugarCube to version 2.14.0.
- Outdated story formats are now removed automatically.

## Bugfixes

- Improved numerous issues with touch-based devices and Internet Explorer 11 in
  the story editor.
- Fixed issues with the quick search field in the story editor.
- Fixed a bug where sometimes text would disappear in the desktop application.
- Fixed a bug where the story directory sometimes would not be unlocked when
  quitting the desktop application.

---

# Twine 2.1.0

Release Date: January 31, 2017

## Upgrade Notes

This is a significant update from the 2.0 series. If you're upgrading, please
read the notes below before beginning.

If you are upgrading, then making a backup copy of your stories folder is
recommended. To do this, launch Twine 2.0 and choose **Show Library** from the
Twine menu. Quit Twine, then make a copy of the folder that was revealed. (If
you are using Linux and **Show Library** doesn't work, your stories folder is
located in `~/Documents/Twine`.

**If you had added custom story formats previously,** you'll need to re-add them
after updating to this version. The process works exactly the same as before.
Sorry for the inconvenience -- you will only need to do this once.

**If you do not see any stories after upgrading,** double-check your Twine
directory by choosing **Show Library** from the Twine menu. Go up one level from
here. You may see two directories: one called "Stories," and another named
Stories in another language (hopefully your preferred, non-English one). Move
the story files from Stories to the folder with the localized name and they
should be back once you re-launch Twine.

**If you would like to continue using 2.0.11 online,** it is still available at
<https://twinery.org/2.0.11>.

## Features added

- Streamlined look and feel.
- The starting passage now shows a green rocket icon in the passage instead of
  being slightly bolder.
- Passages with broken links now show an arrow ending in an X instead of an icon
  in the passage.
- Added dark theme for late-night hypertexting.
- Loading large stories is considerably faster.
- It's now possible to have multiple versions of story formats installed.
- Harlowe 2.0.0 is now available.
- SugarCube 2.1.12 is now available.
- You can now use the Chromium web debugger on stories you test inside Twine by
  right-clicking the window and choosing **Inspect** from the contextual menu.
- You can now directly drag a story file onto the story list to import it.
- The story format version is now recorded in a published story file.
- You can now drag the story map by holding down the middle button of the mouse
  instead of the space bar.
- You can zoom into the story map with the mouse wheel.
- When dragging passages when snap-to-grid is turned on, the passages will
  reflect this.
- If you import a story with the same name as an existing one, then Twine will
  prompt you if you'd like to replace it.
- Danish, Italian, and Portuguese localizations have been added.

### Bugfixes

- Passages that link to themselves display a clearer arrow in the story map.
- The gauge showing the remaining local storage space in the online version now
  works correctly.
- It's no longer possible for passages to get pushed offscreen.
- Renaming a story in the desktop app no longer creates duplicate files.
- A typo in the German localization has been corrected.
