# 2.11 Versions

## 2.11.1

Release Date: November 8, 2025

## New Features Added

- The Polish localization was updated.

## Bugs Fixed

- Snowman story formats now correctly appear in the formats list.

## 2.11.0

Release Date: November 2, 2025

## New Features Added

- The tag toolbar in passage editors has been replaced with a single button
  which shows a list of tags. The title bars of passage editors now show a
  summary of colored tags.
- Newly-added tags are now assigned a color by default.
- A Deselect All button has been added which deselects all passages.
- Doing a search and replace that would cause a passage name conflict (e.g.
  replacing "a" with "b" in a story with passages named "1a" and "1b") is now
  blocked by the application.
- Entering an invalid regular expression in the Find and Replace dialog now
  shows an error message.
- The collapse/expand button in dialogs has been moved to the right side, next
  to the maximize and close buttons.
- Colors in the application have been recalibrated to use consistent brightness.
- The icons for the maximize button in dialogs have changed.
- A Polish localization has been added.
- The Catalan, Italian, and Russian localizations were updated.
- The Electron version used by app Twine has been updated to version 39.

## Bugs Fixed

- The passage name autocompletion now correctly handles passages with spaces in
  their names.
- Scroll bars now have the correct appearance when a dark theme is active.
- Various links were fixed in documentation.

## Story Format Updates

- Snowman has been updated to versions 1.5.0 and 2.1.1.
