# Twine 2.2.1

Release Date: December 20, 2017

## Bugfixes

- Last modified dates on stories in the desktop app are maintained correctly.
- Publishing stories with colored tags now works correctly.
- Publishing stories correctly prefers an HTML version of the story, instead of
  a ZIP archive (used with iOS only).

---

# Twine 2.2.0

Release Date: December 14, 2017

## Features

- Passages can now be wide, tall, or just plain large.
- Tags can be assigned colors, which show up as a vertical stripe on a passage
  in the story map. Every tag doesn't need to have a color.
- You can now press the plus and minus keys to change the zoom level of the story map.
- A Turkish localization has been added thanks to H. Utku Maden.
- A number of extraneous libraries have been removed, so the overall file size
  of the app has been decreased, and it should load faster.
- The built-in SugarCube story format has been updated to 2.21.0.
- The built-in Harlowe story format has been updated to 2.1.0.

## Bugfixes

- When you zoom in and out, Twine does a better job of keeping the window
  centered where you were looking.
- The zoom level you last set for a story is now remembered by Twine.
- If for some reason a story format can't be loaded, you can still delete it.
- The desktop app is more tolerant of story files that it has trouble importing
  at startup -- it keeps going, so you at least can get to the story list.
- If the desktop app does run into problems on startup, it shows the error
  message it should; previously, it would show a blank white page.
