# Twine 2.4.1

Release Date: July 13, 2022

## New Features and Improvements

The German localization has been improved (thanks @JimB16).
Updated the version of Electron used for app Twine to the latest v17 release.

## Bugs Fixed

Fixed a bug related to updating stories' story formats. This showed up in 2.4.0
as a crash message the first time a story was edited.

Browser Twine now uses the Storage Manager API to determine how much space is
left for Twine to use. You may see a change in the value reported from previous
versions, which estimated it by trying to save increasingly large amounts of
data until it failed. This should fix error messages seen in 2.4.0 like `Failed
to execute 'setItem' on 'Storage': Setting the value of
'twine-passages-abcdef-ghijklmn' exceeded the quota.`

Backups work properly in app Twine.

## Documentation

- A section on how to switch to an older version of Twine has been added.
- Small proofreading corrections (thanks @ChapelR).

## Story Formats

Harlowe is updated to 3.3.1. (changelog)

## Known Issues

Editing passage links, especially if you type [[and]] and then write a passage
name, can create extraneous passages as you type, depending on how fast you
type. An improvement on this behavior should come in the next feature release
(there may be further bugfix releases before then).

---

# Twine 2.4.0

Release Date: July 5, 2022

## General UI Updates

There's now a toolbar that appears at the top of the screen for all actions. The
toolbar's separated into tabs, similar to a menu bar, and has a back button
allowing navigation between screens.

The system font is used instead of a custom one. This is mostly an aesthetic
change, but it also helps with non-Latin text.

Some actions, like changing preferences or editing story formats, are available
regardless of where you are in the app.

The desktop app now has an ARM Linux build, and the macOS app is universal,
running on both Intel and Apple Silicon processors natively.

The desktop app has a new icon.

## The Story List

You now select a story from the list and then take an action on it using the
toolbar instead of using a gear menu. Double-clicking a story will edit it.

Stories can now be tagged, and the story list can be filtered to show only
certain tags. Just like passage tags, story tags can have colors associated with
them.

Story previews have been updated to look hopefully nicer.

## The Story Format List

By default, only the most up-to-date version of a story format is shown in the
list. You can see all installed formats using the View top toolbar tab.

## The Story Map

You can now undo and redo changes.

You can now edit multiple passages at one time.

You can rename a passage without editing it.

You can now delete more than one passage at a time.

All detail dialogs, like the find & replace text dialog, are now modeless,
meaning that you can do other work in your story while they're open.

You can customize the font used in passage editors and disable cursor blinking.

Story formats now have an official way to extend the editor. (The Harlowe story
format used undocumented methods to do this in the past.) Story formats can add
syntax highlighting to passage editors, a toolbar of actions to passage editors,
and add additional connections between passages in the map.

- Right now, Harlowe and Chapbook have extensions but other story formats may
  add them in the future.
- You can disable story format extensions if they are causing trouble or you
  prefer not to use them.
- If you're a story format developer, learn how extensions work here. Editing
  larger stories is faster.

## Story Formats

Harlowe 3.3.0 is included, and release notes are here.

Chapbook 1.2.2 is also included. It's the same as the last version, 1.2.1, except for the addition of editor extensions.
