# Twine 2.5.0

Release Date: August 27, 2022

## New Features and Improvements

- Passages considered "empty" now show with a translucent background. To be
  considered empty, a passage must satisfy all of the criteria below:
  - Has no text, not even just whitespace
  - Has no tags
  - Is the default size (small)
  - Is not the start passage of the story
- If the last link to an empty passage is removed, an empty passage will be
  deleted.
  - This behavior is somewhat provisional, and constructive feedback is
    appreciated. The goal of this change is to address issues where typing links
    could create many extraneous passages, and to generally help keep stories
    from being cluttered with unused passages.
- Dialogs may now be maximized.
- The width of dialogs can now be customized in the Preferences dialog.
- If playing, testing, or publishing a story to file fails, an error message is
  now shown. Previously, it failed silently.
- The Delete Passages button now disables if the start passage in the story is
  selected.
- Portuguese and French translations have been improved (thanks @albuquezi and
  @Kln95130).

## Features Removed

- Middle-clicking the story map no longer creates a passage. It falls back to
  the default behavior instead, usually allowing the user to scroll around the
  story map.

## Bugs Fixed

- Entering an invalid regular expression in the Find and Replace text no longer
  crashes Twine. It now reports no matches.
- Replacing a story during an import now correctly links passages to their
  parent story. This bug manifested as an inability to select passages, edit
  them in some cases, and other similar problems.
- Padding on the story map has been adjusted so that dialogs no longer overlap
  passages on the right.
- If the list of story tags or stories to import is too long to fit the window
  height, the list scrolls properly.
- Portuguese and Chinese localizations now load correctly.
- If an incorrect story format URL is entered when adding a new story format, an
  error is shown correctly. Previously, it showed placeholder text.
- The Mac app is now ad hoc signed, so users on Apple Silicon should not see
  repeated permissions prompts when the app launches--only one, the first time
  it runs.
- The app icon on Windows has been enlarged.

## Story Format Updates

Harlowe has been updated to 3.3.2.
