# Twine 2.6.2

Release Date: February 26, 2023

## New Features Added

- The "Start Story Here" checkbox in passage edit dialogs has been replaced with "Test from Here".

## Story Format Updates

- Chapbook has been updated to version 1.2.3.
- Harlowe has been updated to version 3.3.5.

---

# Twine 2.6.1

Release Notes: February 5, 2023

## New Features Added

The Dutch translation has been updated.

## Bugs Fixed

- Fixed a bug where passages would appear empty on the map when they weren't.
- The Go To Passage dialog now receives mouse events properly.
- Matches in the Find and Replace dialog should no longer flicker when other
  changes occur in a story.
- The macOS app is now both signed and notarized, and should not require a
  right-click to open 🤞 .
- Fixed a bug in Twee import where leading or trailing spaces in a passage name
  were not preserved.

---

# Twine 2.6.0

Release Date: January 8, 2023

This is likely to be the last app version of Twine for 32-bit Linux. Electron
18, which this release is based on, appears to be the last version of Electron
to support 32-bit Linux, and it reached end-of-support in September 2022.
Support for 64-bit Linux should not change.

## New Features and Improvements

- When a second passage edit dialog is opened after one is already open, the new
  dialog appears on top of the existing one, forming a stack. A passage edit
  dialog can be brought to the front by clicking its title bar. There is a
  maximum of 5 passage edit dialogs in the background; opening more will cause
  the lowest to be closed.
- Twine can now import and export Twee files. Twee is a plain-text format used
  by many other tools in the Twine community, and has a tech spec. Twine exports
  to Twee 3 format and can import either Twee 3 or older versions.
- Added a Go To button to the story map toolbar, which allows moving to a
  passage by name.
- If there are no conflicts when importing a file, then Twine now automatically
  completes the import without asking for further confirmation.
- If a dialog is already open when it would have normally been opened (like
  choosing to open Preferences twice), the existing dialog will animate to draw
  attention to itself, instead of nothing happening.
- Added a Ukrainian localization, and updated the Chinese, German, and Turkish
  localizations.
- The Mac app is now signed, thanks to the Interactive Fiction Technology
  Foundation. This means that running Twine on Macs no longer should require
  right-clicking it and choosing Open the first time it's downloaded.
  - The relationship between Twine and IFTF has not changed. Although IFTF
    provides support for the Twine community, Twine itself is an entity
    independent of the IFTF.

## Bugs Fixed

- Fixed a problem where dragging the story map and moving the cursor outside the
  Twine window would cause inappropriate scrolling.
- Fixed a broken link explaining what a story format is.
- Fixed a bug with importing stories that were missing some attributes.
  collapsed.
- Fixed the appearance of passage edit dialogs that had been maximized, but also

## Story Format Updates

Harlowe has been updated to version 3.3.4.
