# Twine 2.8.1

Release Date: January 3, 2024

## Bugs Fixed

- Duplicating a story in browser Twine correctly copies passages. (Previously,
  passages were moved to the duplicate story.) This bug only occurred in browser
  Twine.
- A typo in the French localization was corrected (thanks Flavien Robert).

## Story Format Updates

- Harlowe has been updated to [version
  3.3.8](https://twine2.neocities.org/#section_changes).

## Documentation

- Release notes for Twine are now part of [the
  reference](https://twinery.org/reference/en/), where you're hopefully reading
  them now! The reference includes all known release notes for Twine, going all
  the way back to 2009. Thanks to the Twine Cookbook editors and Dan Cox in
  particular.

---

# Twine 2.8.0

Release Date: November 27, 2023

## New Features Added

- In App Twine only:
  - The location of the story library can be changed. It can be done either
    using a menu item preference or command-line switch.
  - Hardware accelerated graphics can be disabled. It can be done either using a
    menu item preference or command-line switch.
  - The location of story library backups can be changed. This can only be done
    using a command-line switch. Please read the documentation carefully before
    using this option.
  - Instead of using the system-wide temporary directory, Twine now uses a
    dedicated scratch folder and prunes old files from it automatically. The
    location of this folder can be changed using a command-line switch only.
    Please read the documentation carefully before using this option.
- A Korean localization has been added.

## Bugs Fixed

- An issue where clicking rapidly on a passage and then dragging it would cause
  the passage to move incorrectly has been fixed.
- An issue where closing a passage editor while the find dialog was open caused
  a crash has been fixed.
- A typo in the Finnish localization has been fixed.

## Behind the Scenes

- The app now uses Vite for bundling instead of create-react-app.
- The underlying Electron framework for the desktop app has been updated to
  version 26.
